README.rst, before:

Pythonium
#########

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/pythonium/pythonium.png  
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/pythonium/pythonium

**tldr**: Python 3 to Javascript translator written in Python that produces fast portable javascript code.

Read the `tutorial <https://github.com/pythonium/pythonium/tree/master/examples/todo-list#todo-list>`_.

(8 minutes)

Quick examples (2 minutes)
==========================

Hello, World!::

    $ echo "print('Hello, world')" >> hello.py
    $ pythonium -V hello.py
    console.log("Hello, world");

A loop. ::

    $ echo "for i in range(10): print(i)" >> loop.py
    $ pythonium -V loop.py
    var iterator_i = range(10);
    for (var i_iterator_index=0; i_iterator_index < iterator_i.length; i_iterator_index++) {
        var i = iterator_i[i_iterator_index];
        console.log(i);
    }


Getting started (2 minutes)
===========================

You can try Pythonium in the `online web console <http://hypermove.net/pythonium-web-console/>`_

You will need Python 3 to run the translator. Refer to your operating system documentation to know how to do it (most Linux distributions have Python 3 readily available).

Then you can use pip to install the stable translator:

  pip install pythonium

The above package installs a ``pythonium`` command that has the following options:

  pythonium

  Usage::

    pythonium [-h][-d][-r][-V][FILE ...] [-o FILE]|[-g]


  Options::
  
    -h --help        show this
    -v --version     show version
    -o --output FILE specify output file [default: stdout]
    -d --deep        generate file dependencies. If --output is not provided, it will generate for each source file a coresponding .js file.
    -r --requirejs   generate requirejs compatible module
    -V --veloce      use veloce mode, Python syntax with JavaScript semantic
    -g --generate    generate pythonium library


What? (2 minutes)
=================

Pythonium exists in two flavors, each with their own strengths and performance characteristics. As you go down the list the more features you'll have, and performance will, of course, decrease with sophistication (but not much):

- Pythonium **Veloce**

  - Fully portable
  - Native Javascript speed
  - Exact same syntax as Python 3
  - Compatible with existing Javascript libraries
  - Functions are translated to Javascript functions with support for keyword arguments, ``*args`` and ``**kwargs``
  - Automatic scope handling and ``global`` support
  - ``for`` iterates over Javascript arrays
  - Python types are mapped to Javascript types
  - Anonymous exceptions with ``__exception__`` special variable
  - Support of ``yield``
  - ``print`` is translated to ``console.log``
  - ``new(SomeObject, arg0, arg1)`` as a special function that translates to Javascript ``new SomeObject(arg0, args1)`` with any number of arguments
  - if ``__DOLLAR__`` is found in any name, it will be replaced by ``$`` character.
  - Support of ``from ... import ...`` via `requirejs <http://requirejs.org/>`_
  - Support of single inheritance classes via `classy <http://classy.pocoo.org/>`_ [1][2]

[1] Nested class definition are not supported
[2] Calling super method is done with ``super(arg0, arg1, arg2, ...)``

- Pythonium **Compliant** All the above and 100% compliant with CPython 3

How? (1 minute)
===============

Ahah!

Want to help? (30 seconds)
==========================

- `Star this repository <https://github.com/pythonium/pythonium>`_
- `Follow the project on twitter <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=pythonium>`_
- `Join the mailling list <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/pythonium-users>`_

Licensing
=========

LGPL 2.1 or later

.. image:: https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/pythonium/pythonium/trend.png
   :alt: Bitdeli badge
   :target: https://bitdeli.com/free

Commit message:

Update README and remove inactive badges

README.rst, after:

Pythonium
#########

**tldr**: Python 3 to Javascript translator written in Python that produces fast portable javascript code, discontinued by its original developer for some reason. Since it's LGPL, I decided to keep a copy around for reference purposes.

Quick examples (2 minutes)
==========================

Hello, World!::

    $ echo "print('Hello, world')" >> hello.py
    $ pythonium -V hello.py
    console.log("Hello, world");

A loop. ::

    $ echo "for i in range(10): print(i)" >> loop.py
    $ pythonium -V loop.py
    var iterator_i = range(10);
    for (var i_iterator_index=0; i_iterator_index < iterator_i.length; i_iterator_index++) {
        var i = iterator_i[i_iterator_index];
        console.log(i);
    }


Getting started (2 minutes)
===========================

You can try Pythonium in the `online web console <http://hypermove.net/pythonium-web-console/>`_

You will need Python 3 to run the translator. Refer to your operating system documentation to know how to do it (most Linux distributions have Python 3 readily available).

Then you can use pip to install the stable translator:

  pip install pythonium

The above package installs a ``pythonium`` command that has the following options:

  pythonium

  Usage::

    pythonium [-h][-d][-r][-V][FILE ...] [-o FILE]|[-g]


  Options::
  
    -h --help        show this
    -v --version     show version
    -o --output FILE specify output file [default: stdout]
    -d --deep        generate file dependencies. If --output is not provided, it will generate for each source file a coresponding .js file.
    -r --requirejs   generate requirejs compatible module
    -V --veloce      use veloce mode, Python syntax with JavaScript semantic
    -g --generate    generate pythonium library


What? (2 minutes)
=================

Pythonium exists in two flavors, each with their own strengths and performance characteristics. As you go down the list the more features you'll have, and performance will, of course, decrease with sophistication (but not much):

- Pythonium **Veloce**

  - Fully portable
  - Native Javascript speed
  - Exact same syntax as Python 3
  - Compatible with existing Javascript libraries
  - Functions are translated to Javascript functions with support for keyword arguments, ``*args`` and ``**kwargs``
  - Automatic scope handling and ``global`` support
  - ``for`` iterates over Javascript arrays
  - Python types are mapped to Javascript types
  - Anonymous exceptions with ``__exception__`` special variable
  - Support of ``yield``
  - ``print`` is translated to ``console.log``
  - ``new(SomeObject, arg0, arg1)`` as a special function that translates to Javascript ``new SomeObject(arg0, args1)`` with any number of arguments
  - if ``__DOLLAR__`` is found in any name, it will be replaced by ``$`` character.
  - Support of ``from ... import ...`` via `requirejs <http://requirejs.org/>`_
  - Support of single inheritance classes via `classy <http://classy.pocoo.org/>`_ [1][2]

[1] Nested class definition are not supported
[2] Calling super method is done with ``super(arg0, arg1, arg2, ...)``

- Pythonium **Compliant** All the above and 100% compliant with CPython 3

References (mostly inactive)
============================

- `Original project Twitter account <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=pythonium>`_
- `Mailling list archives <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/pythonium-users>`_

Licensing
=========

LGPL 2.1 or later
